After dabbling in programming while studying mechanical engineering in college, I started learning it in earnest just before the start of the pandemic. I programmed almost entirely in Go for two years, learning fundamentals and backend web development.

I then attended the Fall 2022 batch at the [Recurse Center](https://recurse.com), where I was immersed in an environment with programmers of different skill levels all driven by curiosity and a desire to learn and share. I spent the first half of my time there learning JavaScript and TypeScript, working on small web projects, and pairing with others. Throughout my batch, I read through the entirety of *Designing Data-Intensive Applications* as part of a weekly reading group. I learned about trade-offs in system design, along with the fundamentals of working with distributed data such as synchronization, replication, consistency, sharding, and more.

During the second half of my RC batch, I worked on designing and implementing a collaborative text editor called [PairPad](https://github.com/burntcarrot/pairpad), along with [Aadhav](https://databases.systems). PairPad uses [CRDTs](https://jakelazaroff.com/words/an-interactive-intro-to-crdts/) as the underlying data structure to maintain consistency between different clients that are simultaneously editing a text document. Making PairPad made me more familiar with Go's concurrency primitives, structuring the program to avoid data races and testing and fixing our implementation of the [WOOT](https://inria.hal.science/inria-00108523/document) algorithm.

After RC, I worked on learning fundamentals I had missed, like algorithms and data structures, regular expressions, and computer architecture. I also started learning Python.

Around this time, I started working on the backend for [ProductScope](https://productscope.ai). ProductScope is a web application meant to help people market their products on Amazon. I was initially in charge of designing and implementing an image editing pipeline, powered by generative AI. I used AWS Lambda functions, written in Python, to handle the logic of manipulating the image data, as well as making requests to several external AI services.

While I was working on ProductScope, I started helping with the development of [ArchiveBox](https://archivebox.io), a powerful tool for creating and managing your own personal archive of the internet. Initially, I helped with things like bug-fixing, configuration, and auth. I eventually started working on contributing more extractors, eventually writing [papers-dl](https://pypi.org/project/papers-dl/), my own extractor.

papers-dl is an extractor focused on collecting scientific papers that are available on the internet. papers-dl aims to be fast and general-purpose, and convenient to use. It's written in Python, and uses the asynchronous HTTP package `aiohttp` to make it fast to search multiple scientific repositories simultaneously.

I also rewrote the ArchiveBox browser extension, improving the architecture, design, and cross-browser compatibility, while updating it for [Manifest V3](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/migrate/what-is-mv3).

With more knowledge, skill, and experience under my belt, in the summer of 2025 I decided to attend the Recurse Center once again, this time in person instead of remotely. During my time there I focused mainly on creating AutoClad, a project that uses machine learning to train a bot to play the game Slay the Spire, a complex strategy game that has thus far been hard for machine learning approaches to conquer. I worked on modifying an existing simulator of the game to enable fast training and testing, and setting up a data pipeline for supervised learning. I hope to soon move on to reinforcement learning approaches.

During this batch, I worked through the course [Programming Parallel Computers](https://ppc.cs.aalto.fi) with a weekly study group, learning about performance optimizations, assembly, multithreading, SIMD programming, and CUDA. I also started a weekly interest group on machine learning techniques, exploring different approaches for how things like reinforcement learning can be applied to games.
